---
title: >
    Female Genital Mutilation
image: ''
author: Admin
date: 2021-05-15T17:16:31.032Z
     

---

I took a deep breath of crisp morning air as I witnessed a flight of birds taking off against the pinkish- orange horizon. Men &amp; women were hustling about preparing for the long day ahead. You see, I was going to become a woman that day. My aunt gave me & my sister a cold bath that morning for the “cleansing ceremony” which was going to be the first step towards my journey in womanhood. We were promised a grand feast & beautiful clothing. Little six- year -old me was bubbling with excitement imagining the beautiful celebrations planned ahead specially for me! My sister was called into the tent first while I waited outside for my turn.

Sweets, hot delicious food, glimmering jewelries & fabulous garments danced in my mind…until my sister’s sudden agonizing scream pierced through my fantasy . Snapping out of my world , I opened my eyes to see my sister being pushed out of the tent with blood running down her legs. She was crying violently as she collapsed onto the ground. I turned to the tent to see an elderly lady beckoning for me to come in. I ran. Stones pierced my little feet while I frantically searched for my aunt for protection. I finally found her clutched onto the hem of her dress. I am safe now. My aunt stroked my hair before gently taking my arm; shoving me towards a group of boys who chased me. The next sequence of events was a blur, I trashed about frantically as I pinned down to a table in one of the dimly lit tents. The stench of blood & sweat wafted into my nose. Bloodied cloth & blades littered the floor. My legs were spread apart & tied with ropes while a boy pinned my hands down. The elderly lady I saw earlier was looming above me holding a clean blade. I saw a flash of white light as my clitoris got cut. My screams fell into deaf ears.

Another lady came after that & injected me down there which numbed my pain. I wept as they stitched me up & tied my legs all the way down. For two weeks I could not go to the toilet to pee & urinated on myself as my legs were tie. My mother came back 1 week later & was horrified to see my sister & myself in that state. I still remember her screaming at my aunt which turned into a fist fight for what has been done to us. 30 years later, I have found the courage to tell my story. The trauma lives within me till today. My name is Nevida. I am a survivor of Female Genital Mutation.

Greetings everyone, today we are going to take a dive into Female Genital Mutilation. Female Genital
Mutilation is when there is injury is inflicted on the female gentiles or when there is partial or complete removal of the female gentiles for no medical reasons. 200 million girls from 30 countries have gone through FGM. Majority of the girls were below the age of 5 years old when the procedure happened. FGM has been classified into 4 categories by WHO:-

-  Type 1 (clitoridectomy) – removing part or all of the clitoris
-  Type 2 (excision) – removing part or all of the clitoris and the inner labia (the lips that surround the vagina), with or without removal of the labia majora (the larger outer lips)
-  Type 3 (infibulation) – narrowing the vaginal opening by creating a seal, formed by cutting and repositioning the labia
-  Type 4 – other harmful procedures to the female genitals, including pricking, piercing, cutting, scraping or burning the area

This practice is most commonly found in African countries, The Middle East &amp; certain parts of Asia. FGM dates back to 5th century BC in Egypt ( present day Sudan) noting the discovery of FGM performed on mummified bodies. Other scholars theorize that the practice spread across the routes of the slave trade, extending from the western shore of the Red Sea to the southern, western African regions, or spread from the Middle East to Africa via Arab traders. FGM is performed with the pretext of suppressing the woman’s sexuality thus rendering them as a more “pure” & “obedient” woman for marriage. A woman who has undergone FGM is highly appraised among the community where FGM is practiced a, emphasizing the ideologies of “virginity, purity, and sexual restraint”. Another reason is because FGM represents the “ identity of a culture” or marks the beginning of a woman’s journey into “womanhood”.

Regardless of the justifications given to mutilate a woman’s private parts, WHO has been endlessly attempting to put a stop to FGM. Kenya, UK , US &amp; Uganda are of the few countries which has criminalized FGM. Reason being that FGM poses major health risks both physically & mentally. Immediate complications of FGM include excessive bleeding, infections &amp; shock which may lead to death. Long-term complications are genital scarring, urinary tract complications, infertility, dysmenorrhea & obstetrics complications which may also lead to death. 80% of women who have undergone FGM reported positive for Anxiety Disorders with a high rate of PTSD as well (30.4%) .

Even our home land Malaysia advocates FGM. In Malaysia, the 4th type of FGM is commonly practiced where by a small pin prick or shallow cut just enough to induce a few drops of blood is considered “ good enough” to complete the ritual. FGM is apparently encouraged by the religious officials in our country. A 2018 study done in Malaysia recruited 605 participants out of which 99% reported to have undergone FGM. A separate study done by University Malaya found the number to be 93%. In these studies, risk of bias is high as not all participants may be willing to admit the fact that they have undergone FGM. Underreporting does play a significant role in the statistics presented. FGM does not pose any health benefits to woman but poses great risks to women. In many countries, women are forced to endure this gruesome procedure “for the sake of their community”. No child should be branded by their community. No child has to be mutilated for the sake of their honor. No child has to be the victim of nonsensical practices. A woman’s genitalia does not carry the honor of a community, but the honor of a community lies in how the woman is treated. United, we can create a safer world for millions of women. Thank you.