---
title: >
    Gay Little Article
image: "/img/key-issues/discrimination.jpg"
author: ""
date: 2021-07-19T17:16:31.032Z
     

---

Disclaimer: everything written here is written solely from my limited experience as a queer man, or at least is assigned male at birth. I use “queer” in the umbrella term sense, as a way to personally reclaim the word, and will use it interchangeably with being a gay man; I invite you to disagree, I have no issue with that. I also use the terms “LGBTQ+” and “queer” interchangeably. I apologize for not being able to represent the lives of all LGBTQ+ people; that is, alas, the cardinal flaw of human empathy. If you are not queer yourself, I strongly urge you to continue reading and learning through the written experiences of all queer people: lesbians, asexuals, transpeople, intersex people and the many more I am too inexperienced to write about. We are not a monolith and you have a lot more reading to do. 

I think I’ve always known I was queer. Your eyes linger a bit too long on a gender it should not, those out-of-place sex scenes felt all the more out of place and the “you got a girlfriend?” interrogations become tiresome but also existential: “why don’t I have a girlfriend?”
All these experiences were typical for me but with an added twist: I was sexually abused by a man when I was 8 years old. That tends to throw a wrench into your mental development. 

I grew up knowing I was some kind of gay, but did not think much of it. I think here is where a certain kind of privilege lies: I grew up Hindu, and Hinduism has legitimately no issue with homosexuality whatsoever. The communities that practice Hinduism are a completely different story, but I grew up without that quintessential shame and self hate many born-religious LGBTQ+ folk live with. My shame stemmed from my abuse instead. 

I used to blame my queer identity when my body reacted “positively” when my abuser did what he did. I thought being gay was the fault, and it was entirely my own fault. This was, of course, before I learnt what unwanted arousal and arousal nonconcordance were; I felt like I only had my sexuality to blame. As a result, I grew up rather sex-averse. I grew up physically afraid of other men. I grew up with this horrible paranoia and terror around other men. So, I did not really grow up with any sense of community with other queer men; I defaulted to ciswomen. 

But this is not new among LGBTQ+ people. Many LGBTQ+ people first engage with their own queer identity when engaging with sexual relations; there aren’t exactly many safe spaces of queer children in a country where you get sent to conversion therapy or bullied to death for being gay or feminine. When LGBTQ+ teenagers are in high school, engaging in kind of formative teenage sexual relations (which is very normal for teenagers, mind you; before anyone comes here with their puritanism) is terrifying. You risk being outed, you risk being ridiculed, you get treated like someone’s dirty secret. And as teenagers, they go looking for those sexual experiences elsewhere. This behavior of treating their own feelings and sexuality as shameful and dangerous leads to exploitation. And considering the kind of stigma and oppression we see LGBTQ+ people face here everyday, it is not surprising LGBTQ+ teens are especially vulnerable to sexual exploitation. 

It is very common for gay teenagers as young as thirteen to go on cruising/dating apps such as Grindr and be sexually propositioned by fully grown men, as old as fifty. It is even more common to have sexual relations with those men and receive the validation we never got anywhere else; alongside receiving all the trauma that comes with being sexually groomed. This is equally similar regardless of gender. There have been many cases of older women being predatory towards younger women (see: children), and since there’s so much stigma around being LGBTQ+, it is simply another hurdle altogether when reporting these sexual misconducts. Oftentimes, the fact that the child is LGBTQ+ is seen as a greater issue than them being exploited, or worse: them being LGBTQ+ is the cause of the exploitation in the first place. That’s the perfect recipe for destructive self-hatred, if I have ever seen one. 

Even institutions that are supposed to protect children can’t even come to terms with queer identity; how will they be able to protect us at all? People in this country have been publicly punished for being queer, excluded from society for being transgender, bullied to death for being gay. It really is no surprise why so many socially isolated and oppressed teenagers are exploited by predators. 

I cannot even begin to describe the collective trauma Malaysia has forced onto its queer citizens. I wholeheartedly blame this country with its blatant violation of human rights and the bigotry of many of its citizens. I do not blame these children, I do not blame sexuality. I blame the people who allow this to happen, I blame the people who stand by and watch these children being exploited; all for the sake of upholding archaic, oppressive values. Accepting queer people as a part of natural human diversity means so many children don’t have to hide; they gain a sense of open community, they get more openly queer friends and can experience their queerness with joy and gratitude. This also means they are much safer. Queer visibility is a necessity towards queer rights and safety. Remember that next time you think a gay person is too in your face about it.

One of my biggest issues with LGBTQ+ culture in Malaysia is that there really is no safe child-friendly space for queer children to figure out their identities and find a sense of community. There is no space for queer children to learn about sexual safety and exploitation, because this country does not even acknowledge their existence at all. What are we trying to say here? That all these young gay men deserved it? That their trauma is negligible? That it was because they’re gay? So much for “child protection”, when you decide which children get to be safe. In practice, this would look like sexual education in schools taking into consideration LGBTQ+ identities and understanding how LGBTQ+ children need somewhat specified sex education considering our struggles are considerably different. At home, I would like to see parents not treat LGBTQ+ sexuality as something dirty or shameful; that is how these children get exploited and hide the exploitation out of shame. I want to stop seeing the media portray LGBTQ+ sexuality and love as unnatural; but more importantly, I want the mass media to stop fetishizing LGBTQ+ sexuality as well. This sends a message that their sexualities are something to be fetishized, which is incredibly damaging to a child’s psyche. But before any of that, the Malaysian government has to finally recognize LGBTQ+ persons in their own country and stop persecuting innocent citizens for merely existing and living their lives. Let’s start there. 

This Pride: I don’t want young LGBTQ+ children to grow up with the same shame and guilt we did. I don’t want them to grow up with the same self hate we did. Enough repression, enough oppression. The queer children are not alright, and Malaysia has done nothing about it. 



