---
title: >
    Safer Internet Day 2021 Tribute
image: /img/blog/blog-safer.png
author: Shreya Menon
date: 2021-05-15T17:16:31.032Z
     

---

It’s 1am, you’re searching for the stream link for the upcoming Manchester United match that’s supposed to start at 1.30am. You find one that was recommended to you by your classmate. You click on it and it turns out to be a phishing site. Well with pandemic drowning us like the giant iceberg in Titanic, this situation is inexplicably unavoidable now that the internet has become a crucial part of our lives. From education to work and even emotional solace, there is possibly no way for anyone to escape internet use today and its multitudes of boogeymen that exist there. So, the question then arises, what can you actually do to prevent detrimental mishaps from donning your or your family’s web usage?

Let’s start with the very basic that almost everyone (Heck, including the author) is guilty of lazing on. As a parent or even an individual who has access to social media accounts or streaming accounts, please (for the love of God) set a strong password that has nothing to do with your birthday, your name, your pets name or ANY personal dates that you have. It’s understandable that this makes your passwords a whole lot easier to remember but lest not forget, anyone within your close circle of friends/family or in fact anyone who has even a teeny bit of your personal information, could generally have access to your accounts. And yes, don’t even think about setting the exact same password for all of your accounts. If you’re creative with your TikToks and your Instagram posts, you definitely can be creative with your passwords. Spice your passwords up with random nouns, symbols, numbers, for example, it could be something like Posh1%Spice*# instead of your usual Khadijah1212.

Picture this: You’re 12, just scrolling through YouTube trying to find for the latest Emma Chamberlain video or the latest PewDiePie stream. You find the right one but right below it, is a pornographic ad that you’ve never seen before. So, now we’ve come across something quite tricky. YouTube has been known for their relatively stringent censorship rules when it comes to anything pornographic but how did this happen to you? Well, our internet boogeymen are quite smart and more often than not the ads are made to spread across any or most accounts. When this happens, you can go to the Privacy setting of your account and either turn off your Ad Personalization or you can turn on Restricted Mode. You won’t be able to access mature content and any ads that you ponder upon will be designated to the content that you’re indulging in. However, what else can you do? It’s shocking to even see a pornographic ad on your timeline, you’ve never digested such contents before and you don’t ever want to see such things ever again. You can report it to Google Ads Help. If the ad violates their guidelines, it’ll be taken down immediately and you’ve saved yourself as well as other consumers from coming across such media.

Now, the most important rule to ensure internet safety, minimize exposing personal details of yourself online. Perhaps posting pictures or short clips of yourself twirling in your new outfit may seem innocent, like we’ve implored before, there’s a multitude of boogeymen online who may likely take advantage of that naivety. A simple step that you can take to protect your fun is by privatizing your account AND with this step, comes the next one, which is, only accept the requests of people that you may know. This way, you’ll be minimizing the risk of potentially exposing personal information to strangers that you’ve never met before. However, we’re all guilty of posting a little too much (no one needs to know that you live alone or even the location of the park/area that you work out at), if you get comments or even messages that you’re uncomfortable with, never hesitate to report and block the individual from your account. If you’re below the age of 18, don’t hesitate to inform your parents either as they would be able to help you protect your privacy. The last thing you ever want is someone commenting or dm-ing you “send bobs and vagena” in your social media accounts. The recent incident involving over 40,000 perpetrators in a telegram group called V2K was a rough wake-up call for everyone who may have disregarded internet safety. Unfortunately, it won’t be the last time we hear about groups like this on the internet. With the increase in internet usage over the past few years, more and more repulsive perpetrators have mushroomed all across the world, ready to infiltrate and exploit. It makes learning about internet safety all the more crucial to protect yourself as well as your loved ones from falling victim to such perpetrators who may even be lurking in your midst.